 
大學入學考試中心 
 
 
 
學科能力測驗 
英文考科考試說明 
－111 學年度起適用－ 
 
 
 
 
中 華 民 國108 年 9 月 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
著作權屬財團法人大學入學考試中心基金會所有，僅供非營
利目的使用，轉載請註明出處。若作為營利目的使用，應事
前經由財團法人大學入學考試中心基金會書面同意授權。 
 
 
 
 
 
學科能力測驗英文考科考試說明 
目     錄 
  
 
前言 ........................................................................................................................... 1 
壹、測驗目標 ........................................................................................................... 1 
貳、測驗內容 ........................................................................................................... 2 
參、試題舉例 ........................................................................................................... 3 
 
 
  
 
 
  
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
1 
學科能力測驗 
英文考科考試說明 
前言 
民國 111 學年度起，學科能力測驗英文考科的命題依據為 108 學年度實施之「十二年
國民基本教育課程綱要國民中小學暨普通型高級中等學校語文領域—英語文」（簡稱「英
語文課綱」）。1英語文課綱以「核心素養」為課程發展主軸，揭示英語文教育除了培養語
言知識與技能，更應重視語言技能的使用，除了日常溝通外，並藉由英語獲取其他領域的
新知；同時培養邏輯思考、處理訊息及運用創意的能力，以因應未來所需。又，依據「111
學年度起適用之大學多元入學方案」 ， 學科能力測驗旨在評量考生的基本核心能力 ， 因此，
學測英文將以英語文課綱普通型高級中等學校部定必修課程為測驗範圍。2 
本考試說明內容歷經專案小組試題研發、 學科專家座談、高中教師諮詢會議等程序，
並參酌教學現況與歷年學測、指考英文實施成效及因應選才需求，研議而成。茲就測驗目
標、測驗內容、試題舉例三個方面加以說明。 
壹、測驗目標 
一、評量考生對高中常用實詞詞彙 （content words） 的構詞、語意、字詞搭配（collocation）
的理解與運用能力。 
二、評量考生參酌上下文意發展，掌握各類詞彙（含實詞、虛詞、慣用語及轉折詞等）及
語法應用的能力。 
三、評量考生依據篇章段落的文意發展，掌握實詞詞彙運用的能力。 
四、評量考生掌握篇章的組織架構與理解文意脈絡的能力。 
五、評量考生綜合運用詞彙（含慣用語）、語意、語法、語用以及篇章結構的知識，理解
文意脈絡、擷取文章重要訊息，並加以分析、比較與推理的能力。 
六、評量考生將中文句子譯成正確、通順、達意英文的能力。 
七、評量考生依據提示，運用所學詞彙、語法，寫出切合主題，並具有一致性與連貫性短
文的能力。 
                                                      
1 教育部於 107 年 4 月 16 日以臺教授國部字第 1070031889B 號令訂定發布。 
2 「111 學年度起適用之大學多元入學方案」 ，係由大學招生委員會聯合會於108 年 3 月 28 日召開 107 學年
度第 1 次會員大會修正通過，並經教育部於 108 年 5 月 21 日臺教高(四)字第 1080061017 號函備查。 
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
2 
貳、測驗內容 
本考科主要評量學生英文詞彙與語法運用、閱讀文本與篇章結構之理解、翻譯及寫作
等語言能力，評量方式分為選擇題型、混合題型及非選擇題型三大部分，其中前兩部分以
評量閱讀理解能力為主，非選擇題型則以寫作能力之評量為主。 
選擇題型中，詞彙題為單題試題，主要評量考生常用詞彙的 理解與運用；綜合測驗、
文意選填、篇章結構、閱讀測驗皆為題組型態的篇章閱讀，以選文搭配數道試題；混合題
型亦為題組型試題，包含兩種（含）以上的作答方式，例如：選擇、表格填充或簡答等。
上述各種題組型態的閱讀題型，旨在評量考生是否能閱讀文長約 180 至 400 字之選文，理
解其文意脈絡及篇章結構。選文以連續性文本為主，涵蓋多元主題，搭配各種文體呈現，
並適當融入多元表徵資訊（例如：圖片、表格等）；取材來源為報紙、雜誌、書籍、網際
網路等。考生平日應多方涉獵各種不同主題及文體的文章，以提 升閱讀各類文章的能力。 
非選擇題型評量考生寫作能力，分為兩大題，第一大題為中譯英，第二大題則為英文
作文（例如：簡函寫作、看圖寫作、圖表寫作、主題寫作等）。第一大題評量考生是否具
備英文句子書寫能力，內容以高中階段所學之基本句型（例如：單句、合句、複句） 為主；
第二大題英文作文之主題與考生日常生活及學習範疇密切配合，用以評量考生書寫短文之
能力。 
詞彙範圍以高中英文常用 4,500 字詞為主，可參考大考中心高中英文參考詞彙表第一
至第五級3，為保留真實語言的使用，偶爾會有第六級（含）以上詞彙。 
 
  
                                                      
3 大學入學考試中心高中英文參考詞彙表（111 學年度起適用）於 109 年 7 月 31 日公告。 
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
3 
參、試題舉例 
現階段學測英文考科以評量閱讀與寫作之英語文能力為主，整卷分為選擇題型、混合
題型與非選擇題型三部分，可能出現之題型如下： 
選擇題型 
一、詞彙題 
本大題旨在評量考生對高中常用實詞詞彙（content words ）的構詞、語意、字詞搭配
（collocation）的理解與運用能力 。 每題提供四個選項 ，考生依文意選出最適當的一個選項。 
試題舉例： 
[例 1] 
Mei-ling has a very close relationship with her parents. She always  _____ them before she 
makes important decisions. 
(A) impresses (B) advises (C) consults (D) motivates 
（103 學年度學測） 
參考答案：C 
作答說明 ：本題 評量 考生能否掌握詞彙 consults 的語意與用法 。作答主要線索為空格
後…before she makes important decisions；題幹第一句… a very close relationship 
with her parents 也提供解題之線索。 
[例 2] 
Intense, fast-moving fires raged across much of California last week. The _____ firestorm has 
claimed the lives of thirty people. 
(A) efficient (B) reliable (C) massive (D) adequate 
（107 學年度學測） 
參考答案：C 
作答說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 massive 的語意及其在語境中的用法。作答線索主
要在第一句 Intense, fast-moving fires raged across much of California … 以及空
格後… firestorm has claimed the lives of thirty people 的語意關係，而 intense, 
fast-moving 及 raged across much of …與 massive 的呼應尤為關鍵。 
二、綜合測驗 
本大題旨在評量考生參酌上下文意發展，掌握各類詞彙（含實詞、虛詞、慣用語及轉
折詞等）及語法應用的能力。題幹皆為段落式短文，選文中含數個空格，每題一個空格，
考生依文意選出最適當的一個選項。  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
4 
試題舉例： 
第 21 至 25 題為題組 
Hair usually gets greasy when it has not been washed because it soaks up oil —hence the 
need for shampoo!   21   this oil -absorbing feature might not always be so great for our 
hygiene, it can be great for the environment. 
Matter of Trust, a nonprofit organizat ion, has an innovative solution for removing the 
large-scale oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, using the ultimate renewable   22  : human 
hair, of which there is an unlimited supply. Since its founding in 1998,  Matter of Trust has 
collected donation s of human hair and animal fur to   23   the thousands of oil spills that 
happen each year. The hair and fur are made into mats and brooms and sent to   24   waters to 
absorb the oil. 
Across the United States each day, 300,000 pounds of hair and fur are cut. Matter of Trust is 
helping organize the collection of this   25   hair and fur through thousands of salons, pet 
groomers, and ranchers. Individuals can also speak to local hair stylists a nd pet groomers about 
sending in leftover hair and fur. 
21. (A) For (B) While (C) In case (D) As long as 
22. (A) equipment (B) ingredient (C) product (D) resource 
23. (A) get away with (B) clean up after (C) run out of (D) look down upon 
24. (A) pollute (B) polluting (C) polluted (D) pollution 
25. (A) unneeded (B) overthrown  (C) excluded (D) disconnected 
（107 學年度學測） 
參考答案：BDBCA 
21.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握篇章標記的用法。作答線索在於空格後 it might not always 
be so great for our hygiene 與 it can be great for the environment 之間的對比關係。 
22.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙在篇章中的用法。作答線索在於空格本句前後… an 
innovative solution for removing the large-scale oil spill … the ultimate renewable …，
而冒號後的 human hair,  of which there is an unlimited supply 為 the ultimate 
renewable resource 例子或說明。 
23.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握片語在篇章中的用法。作答線索除了本段前文 … removing 
the large-scale oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico 外，空格後一句（… to absorb the oil）
也提供了解題訊息。 
24.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握句法結構（過去分詞當形容詞的用法）。作答線索在整段
所提及的 the large-scale oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico，而空格前一句 … thousands 
of oil spills … 以及空格後 … waters to absorb the oil 也提供了作答訊息。 
25.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙語意與段落文意發展的關係。作答線索在空格前後… 
the collection of this … hair and fur…，以及空格下一句的語意，其中 leftover 尤其
是關鍵線索。 
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
5 
三、文意選填 
本大題旨在評量考生依據篇章段落的文意發展，掌握實詞詞彙（含慣用語及轉折詞）
運用的能力。題幹為段落式短文，以一段（或一篇）含十個空格的選文搭配十個選項，每
題一個空格，考生依文意在文章後所提供的選項中分別選出最適當者。 
試題舉例： 
[例 1] 
第 31 至 40 題為題組 
Fortune cookies, commonly served after meals at Chinese restaurants in the U.S., are 
characterized by a fortune, which is written on a small piece of paper tucked inside the cookie. 
There are several   31   stories about the origin of the fortune cook ie. None of them, however, 
has been proven to be entirely true. 
One of these stories   32   the cookie ’s origin back to 13 th- and 14 th-century China, 
which was then occupied by the Mongols. According to the legend, notes of   33   plans for a 
revolution to overthrow the Mongols were hidden in mooncakes that would ordinarily have been 
stuffed with sweet bean paste. The revolution turned out to be   34   and eventually led to the 
formation of the Ming Dynasty. This story may sound highly credible, but there s eems to be no 
solid evidence that it inspired the creation of the   35   we know of today as fortune cookies. 
Another   36   claims that David Jung, a Chinese immigrant living in Los Angeles, 
created the fortune cookie in 1918. Concerned about the poor peo ple he saw wandering near his 
shop, he made cookies and passed them out free on the streets. Each cookie   37   a strip of 
paper inside with an inspirational Bible quotation on it. 
However, the more generally accepted story is that the fortune cookie first   38   in 
either 1907 or 1914 in San Francisco, created by a Japanese immigrant, Makoto Hagiwara. The 
fortune cookie was based on a Japanese snack, but Hagiwara sweetened the recipe to appeal to 
American   39  . He enclosed thank -you notes in the cookies and served them to his guests 
with tea. Within a few years, Chinese restaurant owners in San Francisco had copied the recipe 
and   40   the thank-you notes with fortune notes. Such fortune cookies became common in 
Chinese restaurants in the U.S. after World War II . 
(A) account (B) appeared (C)  competing (D) contained (E) replaced 
(F)  secret (G) successful (H) tastes ( I ) traces (J)  treats 
（107 學年度學測） 
參考答案：CIFGJADBHE 
31.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 competing 的篇章功能。作答線索在於空格後本句及空格
下一句（None of them, however, has been proven to be entirely true.） ，及後文文意
皆與幸運餅的傳說相關。 
  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
6 
32.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 traces 的語意內涵。作答線索在於空格前後本句的語意，
尤其是空格後… origin back to … 的語意。  
33.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 secret 的語意內涵。作答線索為空格後 plans for a revolution 
to overthrow the Mongols were hidden in mooncakes …，尤其是 hidden 一詞。 
34.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 successful 的篇章功能。作答線索在於空格前一句的語意
（a revolution to overthrow the Mongols），與空格後 … and eventually led to the 
formation of the Ming Dynasty 間的語意連貫。  
35.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 treats 的篇章功能。作答線索在於全文文意，以及空格前
後反覆出現的 cookies 與正答 treats 間的詞彙連貫（hyponymy 關係）。  
36.說明：本題評量考生能否理解 account 的語意及其與前文 stories 間的連結（synonymy
關係）。作答線索在於空格前一段 One of the stories …，及空格本句 Another … 的
語意連貫。 
37.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 contained 的語意內涵。作答線索主要在於空格前後語意，
特別是 inside … 的字詞。 
38.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 appeared 的篇章功能。作答線索在於第二、三段的文意，
尤其是二、三段的主題句（One of these stories …origin back to …及 Another … 
created …）與本段的對仗關係。空格前後的語意也提供重要的訊息。  
39.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握 tastes 的語意內涵。作答線索在於空格前字詞 sweetened the 
recipe to appeal to …與正答 tastes 間的語意連貫性。 
40.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握replaced 的語意內涵。作答線索為空格前後語意，尤其是 … 
the thank-you notes和 fortune notes的替代關係，及 replace … with …的用法。 
[例 2] 
第 31 至 40 題為題組 
My father started to suffer from memory loss right after his marriage. Or so my mother 
told us. She said they were married on May 26, while my dad ’s memory told him it was June 
25. This often   31   their anniversary celebration, for his rose bouquet alway s came one 
month late . Mom seldom asked Dad to go shopping in the traditional market for her. But 
whenever Dad   32   on going, she made sure that he brought a shopping list. Dad certainly 
had the list   33   when he left for the market, but he would someh ow forget it, and then 
would find it again only after he returned home. Of course, the   34   that he made were 
based mainly on his memory of the list. Unfortunately, the items were usually different from 
Mom’s   35  . 
  
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
7 
My father’s poor memory gave him certain advantages, though. For instance, he was   36   with 
many secrets in my family and our community. Because of his poor memory, he had the   37   of 
hearing everyone ’s private matters. The reason was   38  : Dad would not remember any of 
it, we thought. As for our neighbors, they liked to invite my father to dinner so that they could 
tell him stories about their children, parents, friends, and pets. They also believed the secrets in 
their families would neve r be   39  . They were quite right, for my father cared   40   about 
who did what to whom. But there is one thing he would never forget: showing up for dinner on 
time. 
(A) little (B) purchases (C) trusted (D) requests (E) insisted 
(F) ready (G) ruined (H) privilege ( I)  revealed (J)  obvious 
（108 學年度學測） 
參考答案：GEFBDCHJIA 
31.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 ruined 的語意。作答線索為空格前一句與空格後本句
之間的語意因果關係。 
32.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 insisted 的語意及字詞搭配。作答線索為空格後 on 與
insisted 的搭配用法，以及空格本句前一句與空格後的文意關聯性。 
33.說明 ：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 ready 的語意內涵 。 作答線索為空格前一句以及空格本
句（Dad certainly had the list …when he left for the market, but he would somehow 
forget it, and then would find it again only after he returned home.）之間的語意關係。  
34.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 purchases 的語意及字詞搭配。作答線索為空格後…that 
he made were based mainly on his memory of the list ，與下一句之間的語意關係。
若能掌握 make purchases（採購）的搭配用法，亦有助於正確作答。  
35.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 requests 的語意。作答線索為空格前文意，尤其是第
五個句子開始 Mom seldom asked Dad to go …到空格本句。 
36.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 trusted 的語意及字詞搭配。作答線索為本段第一句
（My father ’s poor memory g ave him certain advantages, though. ）與空格後本句
（…with many secrets…）之間的語意關係。 
37.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 privilege 的語意。作答線索為空格前後，尤其是空格
後本句…hearing everyone’s private matters。 
38.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 obvious 的語意。作答線索為空格後本段文意，尤其
是空格後本句 Dad would not remember any of it…。  
39.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 revealed 的語意。作答線索主要為空格前本段文意，
空格後文的文意也提供部分作答訊息。 
40.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握詞彙 little 的篇章功能。作答線索為空格本句（They were 
quite right, for my father cared …about who did what to whom. ）與下一句（…one 
thing he would never forget: showing up for dinner on time）之間的語意對比關係。 
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
8 
四、篇章結構 
本大題旨在評量考生掌握篇章的組織架構與理解文意脈絡的能力。題幹為段落式短文，
以一段（或一篇）含五個空格的選文搭配五個選項，每題一個空格，請依文意在文章後所
提供的選項中分別選出最適當者，填入空格中，使篇章結構清晰有條理。 
試題舉例： 
[例 1] 
In the Dutch colonial town later known as Albany, New York, there lived a baker, Van 
Amsterdam, who was as honest as he could be. He took great care to give his customers exactly 
what they paid for—not more and not less.  
One Saint Nicholas Day morning, wh en the baker was just ready for business, the door of 
his shop flew open.   31   She asked for a dozen of the baker’s Saint Nicholas cookies. Van 
Amsterdam counted out twelve cookies. But the woman insisted that a dozen is thirteen. Van 
Amsterdam was not a man to bear foolishness. He refused. The woman turned to go without the 
cookies but she stopped at the door, saying, “Van Amsterdam! However honest you may be, 
your heart is small and your fist is tight.” Then she was gone. 
  32   His bread rose too high or not at all. His pies were sour or too sweet. His cookies 
were burnt or doughy. His customers soon noticed the difference and slipped away. 
A year passed. The baker grew poorer and poorer. Finally, on the day before Saint Nicholas 
Day, no customer came to his shop.   33   
That night, the baker had a dream. He saw Saint Nicholas pulling out gifts from his baskets 
for a crowd of happy children. No matter how many presents Nicholas handed out, there were 
always more to give. Then somehow, Saint Nicholas turn ed into the old woman with the long 
black shawl! 
  34   He suddenly realized that he always gave his customers exactly what they paid for, 
“But why not give more?” 
The next morning, on Saint Nicholas Day, the baker rose early to make cookies. And to his 
surprise, the cookies were as fine as they could be. When he had just finished, the old woman 
appeared at his door again. She asked for a dozen of Van Amsterdam’s Saint Nicholas cookies.  
  35    
When people heard he counted thirteen as a dozen, he had more customers than ever and 
became wealthy. The practice then spread to other towns as a common custom. 
(A) Van Amsterdam awoke with a start.  
(B) In walked an old woman wrapped in a long black shawl.  
(C) From that day, everything went wrong in Van Amsterdam’s bakery. 
(D) In great excitement, Van Amsterdam counted out twelve cookies—and one more. 
(E) Staring at his unsold Saint Nicholas cookies, he prayed that Saint Nicholas could help him. 
（修改自 102 學年度指考） 
參考答案：BCEAD 
  
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
9 
31.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握語句在段落內容的連貫性與一致性和細節之連貫。作答線
索為空格前 ... the door of his shop flew open 與本題選項 an old woman walked in
之間之邏輯關係。選項(B)中 an old woman 即為下一句的 she。 
32.說明 ：本題評量考生能否掌握段落主題句和細節的關係 。作答線索為空格後 His bread rose 
too high or not at all.等即是本題選項(C)中 … everything went wrong ... 的說明。 
33.說明：本題評量考生 能否掌握語句在篇章中起承轉合的發展。 作答線索為 空格前 no 
customer came to his shop 與本題選項(E) Staring at his unsold  … cookies 之時間與
因果關係以及 he prayed that ... 與下一段 That night, the baker had a dream ... 之時
間與因果關係。 
34.說明：本題評量考生 能否掌握語句在篇章段落中起承轉合的發展。 作答線索為 空格前
文 ... the baker had a dream 及 Saint Nicholas turned into the old woman ... 與選項
(A)中 awoke with a start 之時間與因果關係以及 awoke 與空格後 He suddenly 
realized … 之時間與因果關係。 
35.說明：本題評量考生能否掌握篇章整體語意的連貫。作答線索為第五段中 He saw Saint 
Nicholas … Then somehow, Saint Nicholas turned into the o ld woman … 與第六段
全文 … He suddenly realized that he always gave his customers exactly what they 
paid for, “But why not give more? ”此為整個故事的主旨，而選項(D)中 In great 
excitement, Van Amsterdam counted out twelve cookies —and one more. 即為其了悟
後所展現之行為。 
[例 2]  
Copernicus, founder of modern astronomy, was born in 1473 to a  
well-to-do merchant family in Torun, Poland. He was sent off to attend 
university in Italy, studying mathematics and optics, and canon law. Returning 
from his studies abroad, Copernicus was appointed to an  administrative 
position in the cathedral of Frauenburg. There he spent a sheltered and 
academic life for the rest of his days.  
  31   He made his observations from a tower situated on the protective wall around the 
cathedral. His observations were made w ith the “bare eyeball,” so to speak, as a hundred years 
were to pass before the invention of the telescope. In 1530, Copernicus completed his famous work 
De Revolutionibus , which later played a major role in changing the philosophical view of 
humankind’s place in the universe.   32    
Copernicus died in 1543 and was never to know what a stir his work would cause. In his book, 
he asserted that the Earth rotated on its axis once daily and traveled around the Sun once yearly.  
  33   People then regarded the Earth as stationary, situated at the center of the universe, with the 
Sun and all the planets revolving around it. Copernicus’ theory challenged the long-held belief that 
God created the Heavens and the Earth, and could overturn the core values of the Cathol ic 
world.   34   Other ministers quickly followed suit, saying of Copernicus, “This fool wants to 
turn the whole art of astronomy upside down.” 
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
10 
Ironically, Copernicus had dedicated his work  to Pope Paul III.   35   The Church 
ultimately banned De Revolutio nibus, and the book remained on the list of forbidden reading 
material for nearly three centuries thereafter. 
(A) The book, however, wasn’t published until two months before his death. 
(B) If this act was an attempt to seek the Catholic Church’s approval, it was of no use. 
(C) This went against the philosophical and religious beliefs held during medieval times. 
(D) Religious leader Martin Luther voiced his opposition to the sun-centered system model. 
(E) In his spare time, Copernicus studied the stars and the planets, applyin g his math 
knowledge to the mysteries of the night sky. 
（修改自 108 學年度指考） 
參考答案：EACDB 
31.說明：本題旨在評量考生能否掌握段落主題句。作答線索為空格前一段以及空格後本段
的語意。 
32.說明：本題旨在評量考生能否掌握整段發展與細節的關係。作答線索為空格前一句...his 
famous work De Revolutionibus...的語意。 
33.說明：本題旨在評量考生能否掌握段落句的內容連貫性。 作答線索為空格前一句  ...he 
asserted that the Earth rotated on its axis once daily... 以及空格後一句 People then 
regarded the Earth as stationary...的語意。 
34.說明 ：本題旨在評量考生能否掌握段落句的內容連貫性 。作答線索為空格前一句
Copernicus’ theory challenged the long -held belief...  以 及 空 格 後 一 句 Other 
ministers quickly followed suit...的語意。 
35.說明： 本題旨在評量考生能否掌握段落句的內容連貫性。 作答線索為空格前一句
Ironically, Copernicus had dedicated his work to  Pope Paul III 以及空格後一句 The 
church ultimately banned De Revolutionibus...的語意。 
五、閱讀測驗 
評量考生綜合運用詞彙（含慣用語） 、語意、語法、語用 以及篇章結構的知識， 理解
文意脈絡、擷取文章重要訊息，並加以分析、比較與推理的能力。考生分別根據各篇文章
之文意於每題選出最適當的一個選項。 
試題舉例：  
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
11 
[例 1] 
Angelfish, often found in the warm seas and coral reefs, are among the most brightly 
colored fish of the ocean. Brilliant colors and stripes form amazing patterns on their body. These 
patterns actually help the fish to hide from danger among roots and plants. At night, when these 
fish become inactive, their colors may become pale. Often, the young ones are differently 
colored than the adults. Some scientists believe that the color difference between the young and 
the old indicates their different social positions. 
Another interesting fact about angelfish is that they have an occupation in the fish world. 
Most of them act as cleaners for other fish and pick dead tissue from their bodies. This is not 
their food, though. Their diet consists mainly of sponge and algae. 
One particular kind of angelfish, the blackspot angelfish, has a special capability that allows 
it to change gender from female to male. However, the change is not made at random; it happens 
for a specific reason. Angelfish live in groups, and each group has one male fish, which is blue in 
color, and four female fish, which are yellow. The male angelfish is the strongest and largest 
member of the group. He is the one who protects and looks after the females. When the male dies, 
the group needs a new “security guard.” This is when the largest female in the group begins to 
change in appearance. She begins to grow larger in size, and after a week, she starts changing 
color, from yellow to blue. Slowly, her behavior toward the other fish also changes. She begins 
behaving like a male. Two weeks later, black stripes appear on her body, indicating the gender 
change is complete. She is now completely male! 
41. What is the job of an angelfish in the sea? 
(A) Being a cleaner for other fish. (B) Being a bodyguard for other fish. 
(C) Being a gardener for roots and plants. (D) Being a caretaker for sponge and algae. 
42. Which of the following statements is true about the color of angelfish? 
(A) Female angelfish are blue in color. 
(B) The colors of the fish become less bright at night. 
(C) Male angelfish do not have black stripes on them. 
(D) The adult fish and the young ones have the same colors. 
43. According to the passage, what triggers the gender change in the blackspot angelfish? 
(A) Dangers to the group. (B) Changes in the fish’s diet. 
(C) The birth of young angelfish. (D) The death of the male fish in a group. 
44. Which of the following describes the order of changes in the features of a blackspot angelfish 
during gender change? 
(A) Size  behavior  color  stripes. (B) Color  size  behavior  stripes. 
(C) Size  color  behavior  stripes. (D) Color  behavior  size  stripes. 
（108 學年度學測） 
參考答案：ABDC  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
12 
41. 說明：本題旨在評量考生能否掌握主旨與細節的關係。作答線索為第二段第一句… an 
occupation in the fish world，以及第二句 Most of them act as cleaners for other fish 
and pick dead tissue from their bodies.。 
42. 說明：本題旨在評量考生能否掌握內容的細節。作答線索遍及全文，尤其是第一段第
四句 At night, when these fish become inactive, their colors may become pale.。 
43. 說明：本題旨在評量考生能否測驗考生掌握主旨與細節的關係。作答線索為第三段第
六句 When the male d ies, the group needs a new “security guard.”，以及後文對性
別轉換的原因及過程的說明。 
44. 說明：本題旨在評量考生能否測驗考生掌握主旨與細節的關係。作答線索為第三段第
七句 This is when the largest female in the group begins to change in appearance. 起
對性別轉換過程的說明 ， 內容接著依序提到size、color、behavior、black stripes，
完成性別轉換。 
[例 2] 
第 36 至 39 題為題組 
Born in 1785 in southwestern Germany, Baron Karl Drais was one of the most creative 
German inventors of the 19 th century. The baron’s numerous inventions include, among others, 
the earliest typewriter, the meat grinder, a device to record piano musi c on paper, and two 
four-wheeled human-powered vehicles. But it was the running machine, the modern ancestor of 
the bicycle, that made him famous.  
The running machine, also called Draisine or hobby horse, was in effect a very primitive 
bicycle: it had no chains and was propelled by riders pushing off the 
ground with their feet. Though not a bike in the modern sense of the 
word, Drais ’ invention marked the big bang  for the bicycle ’s 
development. It was the f irst vehicle with two wheels placed in line. 
The frame and wheels were made of wood; the steering already 
resembled a modern handlebar. Drais ’ big democratic idea behind his 
invention was to find a muscle -powered replacement for the horses, 
which were expe nsive and consumed lots of food even when not in use. The machine, he 
believed, would allow large numbers of people faster movement than walking or riding in a 
coach. 
Drais undertook his first documented ride on June 12, 1817, covering a distance of 13 
kilometers in one hour. A few months later, Drais created a huge sensation when he rode 60 
kilometers in four hours. These were later followed by a marketing trip to Paris, where the hobby 
horse quickly caught on. The fad also quickly spread to Britain. 
The success of the hobby horse was short -lived, though. They were heavy and difficult to 
ride. Safety was an issue, too: They lacked a brake, as well as cranks and pedals. There were 
frequent collisions with unsuspecting pedestrians, and after a few years Drais ’ invention was 
banned in many European and American cities. Drais ’ ideas, however, did not disappear entirely. 
Decades later, the machine was equipped by Frenchmen Pierre Lallement and Pierre Michaux 
with pedals to become the modern bicycle.  

學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
13 
36. Why did Drais invent the running machine? 
(A) To prove his creativity as an inventor. 
(B) To protect the horses from being abused. 
(C) To provide a new gadget for the royal class. 
(D) To give the general public a better means of transportation. 
37. What does “marked the big bang” mean in the second paragraph? 
(A) Gave out huge noise. (B) Created serious disturbance. 
(C) Enjoyed wide popularity. (D) Represented groundbreaking work. 
38. Which of the following descriptions is true about the running machine? 
(A) It was equipped with cranks and pedals. 
(B) Its wheels and frame were made of iron. 
(C) It had a brake to control the speed of its movement. 
(D) Its steering was similar to the handlebar of a modern bike. 
39. Why did the hobby horse fail to become a common vehicle in the 19th century? 
(A) It was expensive and not durable enough. 
(B) It did not go as fast as people had expected. 
(C) It was hard to control and dangerous to ride on the road. 
(D) It did not receive enough public attention in European cities. 
（107 學年度指考） 
參考答案：DDDC 
36. 說明：本題旨在評量學生能否掌握主旨與細節關係。作答線索為第二段最後二句 Drais’ 
big democratic idea behind his invention was to find a muscle -powered replacement 
for the horses, which were expensive and consumed lots of food even when not in 
use. The machine, he believed, would allow large numbers of people faster 
movement than walking or riding in a coach.。 
37. 說明：本題旨在評量學生能否正確猜測詞意。作答線索為第二段“marked the big bang ”
前後語句 Though not a bike in the modern sense of the word, Drais ’ invention 
marked the big bang for the bicycle ’s development. It was the first vehicle with two 
wheels placed in line. The frame and wheels were made of wood; the steering …。 
38. 說明：本題旨在評量學生能否掌握內容細節。作答線索為第二段與第三段內容，以及
圖片。 
39. 說明 ： 本題旨在評量學生能否掌握內容細節。 作答線索為第三 、 四段內容 ， 特別是They 
were heavy and difficult to ride. Safety  was an issue, too: They lacked a brake, as 
well as cranks and pedals. There were frequent collisions with unsuspecting 
pedestrians, …。 
  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
14 
混合題型 
本大題旨在評量考生綜合運用詞彙（含慣用語） 、語意、語法、語用 以及篇章結構的
知識，理解文意脈絡、擷取文章重要訊息，並加以分析、比較與推理的能力。考生分別根
據文章之文意於每題選出最適當的一個選項或填寫出最適當的答案。4 
試題舉例： 
[例 1] 
作答說明：第 1 至 4 題為題組，請根據文章之文意選出或寫出一個最適當的答案，請畫記
或填寫在答題卷之作答區。 
第 1 至 4 題為題組 
It is an appealing idea that some foods are unhealthy, some healthy, and some super-healthy. 
About 61% of British people reported buying foods because they were supposed superfoods, 
according to a 2014 survey. But what are superfoods? Are they really so good for our health? 
Currently, kale is one of the coolest superfoods around. Kale, a very common vegetable, has 
grown in northern Europe, and plenty of other places, for thousands of years. Its nutrition is 
similar to that of cabbage, broccoli, and cauliflower. Is kale significantly better than other 
vegetables? Fans of superfoods like to list the things that kale contains a lot of, such as iron and 
vitamins, and point out what those t hings do (make red blood cells). But that doesn ’t mean your 
body gets superpowers if you eat more than you need, especially if you ’re already getting 
enough from other sources. It is like trying to make your car go faster by putting in more petrol. 
No good evidence shows that eating plenty of fruit and vegetables with kale is any better than 
eating plenty of them without. 
Another example is chia seeds. One hundred grams of chia seeds contain about 17g of 
Omega-3s, about eight times as much as salmon. Howeve r, the Omega -3s in chia seeds are 
different from the ones in fish: Our body turns the chia kind into the fish kind very inefficiently, 
meaning that you will actually absorb less. Nor is it easy to eat a full 100g of chia seeds, which 
contain 486 calories, almost as much as a Big Mac. So fish is definitely a good source of 
Omega-3 fatty acids for you, which help to protect against cardiovascular disease. But there is 
little evidence to suggest the health benefits from chia seeds. 
Indeed, good nutrition helps  the body fight against diseases.  The truth, however, is that 
nutrition is fabulously complex, different for everybody and mostly mysterious. We know that if 
you eat a balanced diet with plenty of fruit and vegetables and do regular exercise, you don ’t 
need any superfood. And if you don’t, no superfood will save you. 
提示：根據文章內容及試題指示，回答下列問題。 
1. According to the passage, which of the following best describes the author’s attitude towards the 
health benefits of superfoods? 
(A) Doubtful. (B) Optimistic. (C) Objective. (D) Frustrated. 
                                                      
4 學生應依照作答說明及提示，完整而正確地提供答案，扣分比重依當次考試閱卷評分標準訂定會議所訂定
之原則作為標準。 
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
15 
2. Choose ONE sentence from Paragraph 3 that best indicates the author’s attitude toward chia 
seeds. Write down the WHOLE sentence on the answer sheet. 
__________________________________________________________________________ 
3. What does the author mean by saying “… if you don’t” in the last paragraph? 
 It means “… if you don’t ____________________________________________________.” 
4. According to the passage, write down the major nutrient(s) we can find in kale and chia seeds 
and the benefits of these nutrients. 
 nutrient(s) benefit(s) of the nutrient(s) 
kale   
chia seeds   
（修改自 108 年研究用試卷） 
1. 參考答案：A 
說  明：本題評量考生能否判斷作者的態度。作答線索在於每一段落中作者的意見，
尤其最後一段倒數第三行 We know that if you eat a balanced diet with plenty 
of fruit and vegetables and  do regular exercise, you don ’t need any superfood. 
And if you don’t, no superfood will save you.。 
2. 參考答案：But there is little evidence to suggest the health benefits from chia seeds. 
說  明：本題評量考生能否判斷作者的態度並加以舉證。作答時須分別從第三段中判
斷出最後一句為作者對 superfoods 健康益處存疑之佐證。 
3. 參考答案：eat a balanced diet with plenty of fruit and vegetables and do regular exercise 
說  明：本題評量考生能否掌握文章結構（cohesive devices ，動詞結構的刪略法）。
作答線索在於前一句所提的 We know that if you eat a balanced diet with plenty 
of fruit and vegetables and do regular exercise, you don’t need any superfood.。 
4. 參考答案： 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
說  明：本題評量考生能否找尋特定的資訊。作答時需分別從第二段第四、五行及第
三段第五、六行找到 kale 與 chia seeds 的營養成分及其所帶來益處。 
  
 nutrient(s) benefit(s) of the nutrient(s) 
kale iron and vitamins make red blood cells 
chia seeds Omega-3 protect against cardiovascular 
disease 
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
16 
[例 2] 
作答說明：第1 至 5 題為題組，請閱讀下列四則徵才廣告後，將答案畫記或填寫在答題卷之
作答區。 
第 1 至 5 題為題組 
提示：根據上列四則徵才廣告，回答第 1 至 3 題的問題。 
1. Which advertisement lists the benefits that prospective employees will receive? 
(A) A (B) B (C) C (D) D 
2. Which advertisement says that the job offers an opportunity for a good salary? 
(A) A (B) B (C) C (D) D 
3. Which advertisement does NOT indicate that a college degree is required?  
(A) A (B) B (C) C (D) D  
 A  
MARKETING PROFESSIONALS 
A major U.S. corporation in the health and 
nutrition industry has announced the opening of 
its direct sales division in Taiwan. 
The company offers the most lucrative 
compensation plan in the industry and has paid 
over 3.5 billion NTD in commissions  in just 6 
years in the U.S. We are a group of top earners. 
Applicants should meet the following 
requirements: 
(1) Hold R.O.C. citizenship  
(2) Have a university degree and experiences in 
marketing  
(3) Be ambitious, energetic, and willing to learn 
If you believe you have what it takes to develop 
this business, please call (02) 2742-6996. 
  B  
Service Technician 
A local company requires a technician to repair 
and maintain electronic medical equipment. 
Applicants should possess a university degree in 
electronics. The selected candidate will undergo 
a training program to be conducted by our 
manufacturer’s experienced technical personnel. 
If you are interested in the position, send your 
resume to P.O. box 594, Kaohsiung, 820. Or 
contact Ms. Chang at (07) 294-5078 for an 
interview. 
 
 C   
Wanted: Reporters & Editors 
Qualifications: 
 Strong command of English 
 Ability to speak and read Chinese a must 
 University degree 
 Journalism education and/or experience a plus 
 Flexible work hours (30 hours per week)  
 Good work environment and great colleagues 
 Health insurance and annual leave provided 
Send résumé and work samples, if available,  
to Ms. Alice Wu at The Asia Post, 
alicewu@asiapost.com.tw. 
  D   
Southeastern Travel Services  
OPENINGS************************** 
TOUR GUIDES 
Duties:  
 Conduct tours for foreign visitors. 
 Assist with travel and transportation 
arrangements. 
Qualifications:  
Pleasant attitude. High school diploma. Good 
proficiency in English. Outgoing personality. 
Call (04) 2723-2172 after 3:00 P.M. 
Ask for Gary Hu. 
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
17 
提示：以下為兩名應徵者及其選擇要去應徵的工作，請從廣告中找出這兩名應徵者選擇該
工作的主要原因。 
（108 年研究用試卷） 
1. 參考答案：C 
說  明：本題評量考生能否找尋特定資訊，從條列（list）的訊息中尋找與 benefits 有
關的項目 ， 從而確定是哪則廣告 。 作答線索在廣告C 第 7 至第 9 行所列之員
工的福利。 
2. 參考答案：A 
說  明：本題評量考生能否找尋特定資訊（與 good salary 有關者） 。作答線索在廣告
A 第二段所提及的 the most lucrative compensation plan、over 3.5 billion NTD 
in commissions，及 top earners 等關鍵字詞。 
3. 參考答案：D 
說  明 ： 本題評量考生能否找尋特定資訊 。 作答線索在廣告A、B、C 皆提及 university 
degree，廣告 D 僅提及 high school diploma。 
4. 參考答案：flexible work hours 
說  明：本題評量考生能否綜合、分析、推論。作答時根據第 4 題題幹中 Da-wei 的
He doesn’t like to work according to a fixed schedule.，推論 Da-wei 需要的是廣
告 C 所提及的 flexible work hours。 
5. 參考答案：possess a university degree in electronics 
說  明：本題評量考生能否綜合、分析、推論。作答時根據第5 題題幹中 Mei-ling 的
個人資格 the Department of Electrical Engineering，推論其符合廣告 B 所列的
條件 possess a university degree in electronics。 
Applicants’ Strengths and/or 
Expectations 
Job 
Choice 
Major Reasons 
(descriptions mentioned in the advertisements) 
Da-wei is fluent in both Chinese and 
English. He doesn’t like to work 
according to a fixed schedule. 
C 
 Strong command of English language 
 Chinese speaking and reading ability a must 
             4             
Mei-ling graduated from the 
Department of Electrical 
Engineering. 
B              5             
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
18 
非選擇題型 
一、中譯英：以單句翻譯為主 
測驗目標：評量考生將中文句子譯成正確、通順、達意英文的能力。 
作答說明：請將以下中文句子譯成正確、通順、達意的英文。 
試題舉例： 
[例 1] 
1. 自2007年營運以來，高鐵（the High Speed Rail）已成為臺灣最便利、最快速的交通工具
之一。 
2. 對於強調職場效率的人而言，高鐵當然是商務旅行的首選。 
（108 學年度學測） 
參考答案： 
1. 
its operationsSince  in 2007, the High Speed Rail has become one of the most convenient its launch
fastest transportationand quickest  means of   in Taiwan.transportspeediest



    

 
2. 
definitelyemphasize efficiency at work,people surelyFor  who place value on  workplace effici ency,  the HSR is those certainly put (an) emphasis on efficiency at the wo rkplace, undou
            
       
 
btedly
first choice trips.the   for business best option travel.




     
     
     
 
1.說明：評量考生運用所學詞彙及基本句型 （現在完成式have + p.p.） 將中文句子翻譯成正
確 、 通順 、 達意的英文句子 。 所評量的詞彙仍以高中常用字詞為主 ， 例如 ： 營運(its) 
operations、高鐵 the High Speed Rail (HSR) 、已成為 has become、最便利 the most 
convenient、最快速 the fastest/quickest/speediest、交通 transportation/transport、工具
means of。 
2.說明：評量考生運用所學詞彙及基本句型（關係代名詞 who 子句）將中文句子翻譯成正
確、通順、達意的英文句子。所評量的詞彙仍以高中常用字詞為主，例如：強調
emphasize/place value on、 職場效率efficiency at work/workplace efficiency/efficiency 
at the workplace、 當然definitely/certainly/undoubtedly、 商務旅行business trips/travel、
首選 first choice/option。  
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
19 
試題舉例： 
[例 2] 
1. 相較於他們父母的世代，現今年輕人享受較多的自由和繁榮。 
2. 但是在這個快速改變的世界中，他們必須學習如何有效地因應新的挑戰。 
（105 學年度學測） 
參考答案： 
1. 
youngsterstoday's young people
youth
Compared to/with the generation of their parents,
now(,)In comparison with their parents' generat ion,
the ynowadays(,)
today(,)
 
               
outh
youngsters
young people
moreenjoy  freedom and prosperity.greater










 
2. 
But(,) need toYet, in this fast-changing world, have toHowever,  they  learn (how) toin this rapidly-changing world, mustNonetheless, shouldNevertheless,
react to
respon
 
           
   
    
d to  new challenges effectively.
deal with
handle
react to 
effectively new challenges.respond to
deal with
handle

                 
                         

 
1.說明：本題評量考生能否運用所學的常見字詞（例如：compared with/to, parents’, generation, 
young people, enjoy, freedom, prosperity）與基本句型，將中文句子翻譯成正確且達
意的英文。 
2.說明：本題評量考生能否運用所學的常見字詞（例如：rapidly/fast changing, world, learn, 
effectively, new challenges）與基本句型，將中文句子翻譯成正確且達意的英文。  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
20 
二、英文作文：此大題為引導寫作，題型包含簡函寫作、看圖寫作、圖表寫作，或主題寫
作等 
測驗目標：評量考生依據提示，運用所學詞彙、語法，寫出切合主題，並具有一致性與連
貫性短文的能力。 
作答說明：依提示寫一篇英文作文，文長至少 120 個單詞（words）。 
 
英文作文分項式評分標準如下： 
等級 
項目 優 可 差 劣 
內 
 
 
容 
主題 （句） 清楚切
題，並有具體、完
整 的 相 關 細 節 支
持。 
（5-4 分） 
主 題 不 夠 清 楚 或
突顯 ， 部分相關敘
述發展不全。 
 
（3 分） 
主題不明 ， 大部分
相 關 敘 述 發 展 不
全或與主題無關 。 
 
（2-1 分） 
文 不 對 題 或 沒 寫
（ 凡 文 不 對 題 或
沒寫者 ， 其他各項
均以零分計算） 。 
（0 分） 
組 
 
 
織 
重 點 分 明 ， 有 開
頭、發展、結尾，
前後連貫 ， 轉承語
使用得當。 
（5-4 分） 
重點安排不妥 ， 前
後 發 展 比 例 與 轉
承語使用欠妥。 
 
（3 分） 
重點不明 、 前後不
連貫。 
 
 
（2-1 分） 
全 文 毫 無 組 織 或
未按提示寫作。 
 
 
（0 分） 
文 
法 
、 
句 
構 
全文幾無文法 、 格
式、標點錯誤，文
句結構富變化。 
 
（5-4 分） 
文法、格式、標點
錯誤少 ， 且未影響
文意之表達。 
 
（3 分） 
文法、格式、標點
錯誤多 ， 且明顯影
響文意之表達。 
 
（2-1 分） 
全 文 文 法 錯 誤 嚴
重 ， 導 致 文 意 不
明。 
 
（0 分） 
字 
彙 
、 
拼 
字 
用字精確、得宜，
且幾無拼字 、 大小
寫錯誤。 
 
 
（5-4 分） 
字詞單調、重複，
用字偶有不當 ， 少
許拼字 、 大小寫錯
誤 ， 但不影響文意
之表達。 
（3 分） 
用字、拼字、大小
寫錯誤多 ， 明顯影
響文意之表達。 
 
 
（2-1 分） 
只 寫 出 或 抄 襲 與
題 意 有 關 的 零 碎
字詞。 
 
 
（0 分） 
 
  
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
21 
試題舉例： 
1. 簡函寫作 
[例 1] 
提示︰你最好的朋友最近迷上電玩，因此常常熬夜，疏忽課業，並受到父母的責罵。你
（英文名字必須假設為 Jack 或 Jill）打算寫一封信給他/她（英文名字必須假設為
Ken 或 Barbie），適當地給予勸告。 
請注意 ： 必須使用上述的Jack 或 Jill 在信末署名 ， 不得使用自己的真實中文或英文名字。 
（101 學年度學測） 
說明：本題評量考生運用所學詞彙、語法寫出切合主題，達成溝通功能，並具有一致性
與連貫性簡函的能力。考生必須依據作答提示寫出一封勸告的書信，並且必須使
用所提供的英文名字署名。 
[例 2] 
提示：你的外國朋友 Kelly 將於 7 月 8 日至 14 日到臺灣旅遊。請寫一封至少 120 個單詞
的信給 Kelly，根據臺灣的天氣狀況 （詳下圖） ，設計行程，告訴她你打算帶她去
哪裡觀光，並提醒她應準備哪些衣物及配備。 
請注意：必須以 Chris 在信末署名，不得使用自己的真實中文或英文名字。 
氣象預測圖 
 
 
 
 
 
（108 年研究用試卷） 
說明：本題評量考生運用所學詞彙、語法寫出切合主題，達成溝通功能，並具有一致性
與連貫性簡函的能力。考生必須依據作答提示寫出一封書信，告訴朋友即將到來
的行程以及需要注意的事項，並且必須使用所提供的英文名字署名。 
  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
22 
2. 看圖寫作 
[例 1] 
提示︰請以下面編號 1 至 4 的四張圖畫內容為藍本 ， 依序寫一篇至少 120 個單詞 （words）
的文章，描述女孩與貓之間的故事。你也可以發揮想像力，自己選定一個順序，
編寫故事 。 請注意 ， 故事內容務必涵蓋四張圖意 ， 力求情節完整 、 前後發展合理。 
（96 學年度學測） 
說明：本題評量考生能否運用所學詞彙、語法，寫出切合圖片內容，並具一致性與連貫
性之短文。根據作答提示內容，考生可自行決定四張圖片順序，描述女孩與貓之
間的故事；思考如何串連各圖片，鋪陳各圖片的情節，展現寫作創意，完成寫作
任務。無論考生如何決定圖片的順序，故事內容務必涵蓋四張圖片的情節，且前
後發展必須有合理性。 
[例 2]  
提示︰ 
請根據右方圖片的場景，描述
整個事件發生的前因後果。文
章請分兩段，第一段說明 之前
發生了什麼事情，並根據圖片
內容描述現在的狀況；第二段
請合理說明接下來可能會發生
什麼事 ， 或者未來該做些什麼 。 
 
（98 學年度學測） 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
(1) (3) 
(2) (4) 
學科能力測驗考試說明 英文考科 
  
23 
0
2
4
6
8
10
單位: 小時
說明：本題主要評量考生能否運用所學詞彙、語法，寫出切合圖片內容，並具一致性與
連貫性的短文。文長至少 120 個單詞，文分兩段。第一段描述圖片之前發生了什
麼事情，並且描述現在的狀況，第二段則合理說明皆下來可能會發生什麼，或者
未來該做些什麼事情。 
3. 圖表寫作 
提示 ：下圖呈現的是美國某高中的全體學生每天進行各種活動的時間分配 ， 請寫一篇至少
120 個單詞的英文作文。文分兩段，第一段描述該圖所呈現之特別現象；第二段請
說明整體而言，你一天的時間分配與該高中全體學生的異同，並說明其理由。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
（103 學年度指考） 
說明：本題主要評量考生能否運用所學詞彙、語法，寫出切合圖表內容，並具一致性與連
貫性的短文。文長至少120 個單詞，且文分兩段。第一段描述圖表所呈現之特別現
象，而第二段則說明自己一天的時間分配與該高中學生的異同，並說明理由。 
4. 主題寫作 
[例 1] 
提示︰你認為家裡生活環境的維持應該是誰的責任？請寫一篇短文說明你的看法。文分
兩段，第一段說明你對家事該如何分工的看法及理由，第二段舉例說明你家中家
事分工的情形，並描述你自己做家事的經驗及感想。 
（105 學年度學測） 
說明：本題評量考生運用所學詞彙、語法寫出切合主題，並具有一致性與連貫性短文的
能力 。 考生必須依據提示內容 ， 說明自己對做家事的看法 ， 要說明家事如何分工，
並且舉例說明家事分工的情形，以及自己做家事的經驗及感想。 
  
英文考科 學科能力測驗考試說明 
  
24 
[例 2] 
提示︰下面兩本書是學校建議的暑假閱讀書籍，請依書名想想看該書的內容，並思考你
會選擇哪一本書閱讀，為什麼？請在第一段說明你會選哪一本書及你認為該書的
內容大概會是什麼，第二段提出你選擇該書的理由。 
  
  
   
 
 
（104 學年度學測） 
說明：本題評量考生掌握語法能力及使用適當的詞彙與句型，寫出一篇文長至少 120 個
單詞，且具連貫性和一致性的英文作文。考生必須依據提示內容，根據所提供的
兩本書的書名選出一本，想像該書可能觸及的內容，並說明為何選擇想要閱讀該
書的理由。 
[例 3] 
提示：下圖是一個國際請願網站的首頁，請參考網頁上的訊息，寫一篇至少 120 個單詞
的請願文章（視需要分段） ，為一個環境議題發聲，內容包含你所看到的環境問
題、你為何感到憂心，以及你希望如何改變等三部分。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
（108 年研究用試卷） 
說明：本題評量考生掌握語法能力及使用適當的詞彙與句型，寫出一篇文長至少 120 個
單詞，且具連貫性和一致性的英文作文。考生必須依據提示內容，為一個環境議
題發聲，內容必須包含你所看到的環境問題、為何感到憂心，以及你希望如何改
變等三個部分。 